Story Recapped here.
Today I'm going to show you a science fiction
drama film called The Shape of Water.
Spoilers ahead!
Watch out and take careIn 1962, during the
Cold War, there exists Occam Aerospace Research
Center, a secret government laboratory in
Baltimore, Maryland.
Elisa Esposito, a mute woman, works there
as a cleaner.
She lives in a tiny apartment just above a
movie theatre.
Elisa's life looks like a well-practised routine
because she does the same things every day.
Ever since she was a child, Elisa already
had wounds on her neck, and she constantly
wonders where it came from.
Her next-door neighbor, Giles, a middle-aged
illustrator, is one of Elisa's closest friends.
Her neighbors are relatively nice to her as
she is a polite and friendly woman.
She always takes the bus on her way to work,
and she is always welcomed by her closest
co-worker, Zelda Fuller.
When other co-workers harass or intimidate
Elisa, Zelda always stands for her.
Both of them are in charge of keeping rooms
and other facilities clean.
Their work consists of going around offices
and rooms that higher executives use.
On a typical work shift, one of the officials
announces that a new and valuable asset is
added to the research center, captured from
South America.
A vessel is brought inside along with Colonel
Richard Strickland, the one in charge of the
project.
As Elisa takes a closer look at the vessel,
something from the inside thumps it, grabbing
everyone's attention.
Frightened and confused, the two ladies leave
the room and go about their work.
While cleaning the men's restroom, Elisa and
Zelda meet Colonel Strickland, who immediately
gives off a very menacing vibe.
A while later, they both hear a scream from
the room where the vessel is placed; Strickland
emerges to the hallway with two fingers missing
from his left hand, making the guards run
to his rescue.
Elisa and Zelda are assigned to quickly clean
the bloody room where they keep the new "asset".
As Elisa splashes a bucket of water on the
floor, Colonel Strickland's two missing fingers
come out from a corner.
Elisa carefully places it in a bag to send
it to the hospital.
She walks toward the vessel and discovers
that the "asset" is an amphibian man.
Fascinated by it, Elisa comes back to the
room the next day to see the amphibian man
once more.
She knocks gently at the vessel, but the amphibian
man is now transferred to a small pool just
beside it.
She calls its attention by offering it a boiled
egg.
The chained creature comes closer; Elisa takes
a good look at it and places the egg in front
of the creature.
In the next following days, Elisa continuously
sneaks into the room to spend time with it
as she feeds it boiled eggs.
She even teaches it to use sign language,
and out of kindness, she plays music for it.
She seems much happier now that she has met
the amphibian man.
While dancing in
front of the vessel to entertain it, Doctor
Robert Hoffstetler, a scientist secretly a
Russian spy named Dimitri Mosenkov, sees Elisa
forming a close bond to the amphibian man.
He reports this to his Soviet handlers, saying
that this creature is intelligent and can
communicate.
Hoffstetler's bosses disregard this and orders
him to kill it before the Americans advance
their scientific research.
During one of Elisa's meeting with the amphibian
man, she saw that it is chained to a small
platform where Strickland tortures it brutally.
Meanwhile, Strickland's boss, General Hoyt,
wants to harvest the creature's body for further
research in space technology.
Strickland manages to persuade Hoyt that they
should vivisect the creature's body.
Elisa overhears their conversation, and it
devastates her.
She asks help from Giles to liberate the creature.
She knows for sure that if she does not do
anything, the amphibian man will surely die.
He brushes her off, but she remains persistent;
finally, Giles agrees to be part of her plan
after he ponders that Elisa is his only real
friend and the only one that truly listens
to him.
Hoffstetler meets with his bosses again.
They give him a poisonous injection to completely
kill the amphibian man; hesitant, Hoffstetler
has to obey their commands.
In the meantime, Elisa and Giles orchestrate
their plan to pull off their escape plan for
the amphibian man; he uses his skills to decorate
a van and make a fake ID for himself.
In the lab, Elisa becomes the unwanted attention
by Strickland after he deliberately spills
his glass of water, leaving her no choice
but to clean his office.
Elisa walks out after Strickland harasses
her.
Hoffstetler prepares the poison as Elisa initiates
her plan by turning cameras away from the
enclosure.
At Strickland's office, Hoffstetler discovers
Elisa's plan and decides to help her.
In the vessel room, Elisa is startled when
she saw Hoffstetler; he gives her the keys
to unchain the amphibian man.
As Zelda leaves work, she senses that Elisa
is up to something and decides to check up
on her.
Elisa sneaks the amphibian man into a laundry
hamper and pushes it around the facility while
Giles drives to their agreed spot.
He enters the premises but is unsuccessful.
Zelda finds out about Elisa's plan.
Hoffstetler shuts down power with a bomb device
and uses a syringe on a guard who stopped
Giles upon entrance.
They successfully get the amphibian man inside
the van, and they drive away.
At the same time, Strickland and the security
team rush to the exit but are too late; this
left him devastated and furious.
Elisa, Giles, and the amphibian man safely
arrive at Elisa's apartment.
The creature is kept in the bathtub with chemicals
that Hoffstetler instructed her to submerge
it in to maintain the amphibian man's health.
The amphibian man regains his strength after
being out of the water for some time.
Elisa plans to release him into a nearby canal
in several days when it is
most probable to rain to provide access to
the ocean.
In the lab, Strickland and his team investigated
how the group managed to escape and "steal"
their asset.
When Elisa and Zelda go to work the following
evening, Strickland interrogates them, but
he doubts that they are responsible for it.
He does not think that two women, one being
mute, can successfully perform a heist in
a high-security government lab.Giles falls
asleep at the apartment while watching over
the amphibian man; it gets out of the tub
and ends up eating one of Giles' cats.
He startles the amphibian man; it ends up
scratching his arm, and it also runs out of
the apartment.
It gets as far as the cinema downstairs before
Elisa, filled with worry, finds him and returns
to her apartment.
Upon returning, the amphibian man touches
Giles on the head and wounded arm.
One night, Elisa struggles to fall asleep;
she checks up on the amphibian man currently
living in her bathroom.
The both of them look at each other longingly
and continue to have an intimate moment.
For the first time in her life, Elisa feels
connected to "someone"; the love that she
so desperately desires is now present in her
life.
She thinks that her life has a new meaning
ever since the amphibian man arrived.
Back at Hoffstetler's place, his Russian bosses
visit him.
Already sensing danger, he hides a knife in
his defense, but he remains safe as they leave.
He ends up getting shot by one of them.
Giles wakes up one morning and discovers hair
growing on his head where there was previously
a balding spot.
Also, it leaves him confused that the cut
on his arm is not completely healed.
As Elisa and the amphibian man grow closer,
they make love; she even floods the bathroom
so they can swim together.
This causes the theatre to have leakages.
The theatre owner complains about it, forcing
Giles to disturb Elisa and the amphibian man
in their precious moment.
Back at the lab, General Hoyt informs Strickland
that in 36 hours, he should recover their
asset, or his career and life will be over.
Elisa arrives home one morning and realizes
that the amphibian man grows weaker by the
day; she decides that it is time to let it
go soon.
She is unprepared for their depart that she
even imagines a world where the both of them
could be together freely.
In this imaginary world, music fills the air,
she can sing, and the love of her life dances
with her.
Meanwhile, Hoffstetler is shot by one of his
Russian bosses, but Strickland, waiting for
perfect timing, not only shoots and kills
both bosses but also shoots Hoffstetler, having
realized that he is a spy.
Strickland tortures him to get information
about who got away with stealing their "asset".
Hoffstetler refuses to disclose any information.
Already in much
pain, his last words are, "No names.
No rankings.
They just clean".
This makes Strickland think, and it gives
him a realization; he is more than shocked
to learn that the two cleaning ladies are
involved.
He goes to Zelda's home to interrogate her
and her husband, Brewster.Strickland starts
to act manic as he is desperate to catch the
amphibian man.
Out of fear, Zelda's husband confesses that
the amphibian man is with Elisa.
Zelda scolds her husband and then calls Elisa
to warn her.
Strickland, filled with angst, leaves to ransack
Elisa's apartment.
Again, he arrives too late, but he sees a
calendar that reveals where she plans to release
the amphibian man.
At the canal, they bid their goodbyes to the
amphibian man.
Strickland reaches the canal, knocks Giles
down, then continues to shoot the amphibian
man and Elisa.
Accepting their fate, they hold hands dramatically.
Giles manages to get up and hit Strickland
down.
The amphibian man gains its strength and heals
its own bullet wounds.
Strickland is impressed and calls the amphibian
man a god before it slashes Strickland's throat
with its claws.As the police arrive, the amphibian
man takes Elisa into the water.
This happens as Giles and Zelda watch in sadness
and despair.
The amphibian man kisses Elisa underwater
and touches the wounds on her neck.
This instantly revives her; they remain underwater,
in love and happy that they can be together.